we are recording well in that case
welcome to the ipfs weekly in GUI and
web browser sinkholes is tradition we
all go and stare at the agenda for a
second and see if anyone has any agenda
points to act which will beseech the
audience for a most taker anyone
available anyone stepping forward okay
Jim pick thanks Jim and also take a
moment to add any agenda items that you
would like to anything in these
integration teams purview while people
are ruminating on their desires for the
agenda we should do a round of what I
done last week was gonna do this week
and as it's customary Lydell is at the
top of the list so I love it with a
little bit of Bounce week okay so
sharing my screen last week a stable
release of
ipfs combined extension with new web UI
weave window IDF has v2 so without the
first enable mat it's a sink method that
lets you ask for multiple permissions in
bulk it's ready to play it with it in
wild it's involved stable and data
Channel and yeah that's ready for
install we had the discussion with brave
and there's like a post with plan how we
can speed up bringing ipfs to brave by
avoiding shipping ago ipfs binary and
writing all the orchestration related to
that instead if we could empower JSI TFS
no chronic inactive as companion to have
similar powers namely expose HTTP
gateway using some more powerful IP is
that our extension could get
access to so plumb and pros and cons for
both approaches it's sort of long but I
try to make it a good case Y J's IPF
asthma may be ready
or at least might be ready at some point
in 2018 and there's like a related issue
about those hidden by default in
chromium hidden by default in like
Google Chrome but if we get a blast
extension status in brave we could gain
access to those api's and have things
like exposing cases be gateway in
similar fashion but Co IP first us and
also like the local discovery and TCP
transport similarly to develop
experiments we did in the past year
things like that on the cid and by 32
front we have like public gateway is
coming along nicely
I think Kyle posted some updates in this
main issue yeah without that like
general summary from NGO activist and
Jessica first companion as well compile
the text series in subdomains and
displays page actions dozen related
issue why I mention it is how should we
handle websites loaded like with CID in
subdomain the thing is that if we load
website that using CID in subdomain then
this website gets security and isolation
guarantees provided by origin base
isolation built in to a web browser
bundle but the thing is that if ipfs
companion redirects that website to
local gateway then this origin base
security parameter disappears because we
only have like one origin for all the
websites
so the question is how should we handle
CID in subdomain website and that's sort
of a similar case within DNS linked
websites because if you have your own
domain then you have origin by security
parameter but if we redirect that
website to local Gateway then it's just
on the IP FS / domain path which shares
the origin with other websites so there
are different solutions to that some are
sort of wishful thinking right now some
are very messy and I think the best we
can do is to do not redirect by default
with the assumption that if someone is
loading website with CID in subdomain
they care about origin separation what
we could do is to display page actions
just like we do for like right now right
display that this website was loaded
with public gateway and what we could do
is to add additional option below to
either open that website on local
gateway but that would be an opt-in like
conscious opt-in by the user or we could
like opt-in for automatic redirect so
from for this website it's fine to
redirect I'm open for suggestions if
anyone has a better idea or a way we
could handle it more gracefully the
issue a linked will be great and that
sort of it's on Maya and just like to
finish up and I take questions on the
next in the next week I want to I have a
like a baked in PR about about opting
out from redirects for specific websites
namely let's say on the top if I choose
companion Iranian can be directing it
may break the website people should have
a possibility just like in new blog to
opt out from
from IOT FS compiled italic on the for a
specific website and that sort of
related to this in this like discussion
about subdomains we would like to opt in
and there should be like also like
opt-out so that's like something I would
do like to figure out in the following
week and also maybe if time allows go
back to brave and then stop sharing and
take questions there is the so the
situation right now is companion detects
cides in subdomains and redirects them
it does not it does not but the problem
is that we do redirect for DNS linked
websites which is sort of the same
situation so we also need to unify ball
fighting hmm yeah it seems like we need
to to do it round of significant UX
thinking around all of this okay well
what was my other thought I had another
one it's gone any other question it
would be good to talk a little bit more
about the conversation you had with
brave I would add that chn defer to come
back see after we've done around sure do
go Europe next how's your week been I
think my network is really unstable so
which is something I dropped my
connection or something don't worry I'll
be okay okay so you can see my screen
what I did last week I fixed a rendering
issue that was happening in Firefox the
file operations in preview mode yeah as
I was saying my network is not very good
so basically there was an issue with
this SVG that was taking up the box
in now it's okay so you can do
operations on the belt radio mode I'm
just praying for the CI to pass I don't
know it's always failing well just
restart more specifically on that see
how I did it sound all the sea-ice all
my prototypes are failing because it's
timing out okay
I don't think it's any anything with my
clothes
I also reply to the effector the drag
and drop to the whole page because we
could only drag and drop files and
folders to to the phallus when we only
have one file we will just have to drop
them in here now we can drop even
another pages for example in status drag
and drop you can see this over line it
redirect us to to the file page and
which one file and it still will enable
us to drop in specific folders I'm not
really I'm not totally comfortable with
this how can I say these interactions
because we have this overlay then when
we drag so the file lists get a bit of a
penalty and then highlight the folder
and if you don't like this I have to
think about other way to do this but
it's working I will make that in another
four sites for now I think back and it's
not let me have a high priority right
now agree I think that's already an
improvement and we can make it better
then I had a lot of sessions with always
thank you to fix and pencil knowledge
transfer of the idea with the X bar so
we basically fix the the exploring of
Seabourn notes to work with the new
api's what's missing is the back baby no
sort of us want I think you will have to
fix that
this week I released two versions of the
IPL the export components I kind of
expected to release a web UI with those
fixes but I'm a bit of luck with the
bundle size I have to check what what's
happening with that after that it's just
much the big question really ventilation
is where do i next week that make the
IPL be explored with the latest changes
like for the work and continue to push
for the web UI or the next miner really
presently improving the file manager you
have a lot of stuff to do and that is
pretty great a lot of stuff you've done
it's just a porous but yes yeah this
week is 22.4 yeah some of these are just
waiting to be motion the most
interesting thing for GUI world this
week was actually having just enough
time and enough credentials to push
through to get signed installers of the
ipfs desktop apps on OS X and oh my oh
my is that it's surprisingly complicated
for a for a setup that you'd think would
you definitely want to happen these are
now like this is the distillation of the
process that I added and there's various
like UX Horrors in there
the problem being we're building an
electron app and we want to apply the
certificates that we created during the
continuous integration process so the
challenge here is that I think a lot of
the UX improvements around signing apps
has gone into Apple's Xcode app and we
are not using that we are using
javascript an electron of any weight so
there was them it was a lot of work but
the summary is for anyone who might be
building electron hope there is a bullet
point guide on all the things you have
to do and there is also just quickly
booboo or forgot it I've got a DMV 707
so this is the latest release so I've
kicked I've incremented the version I'm
just one thing that hadn't quite thick
for me with the gif its desktop release
president's was the electron builder and
it's quite interesting and it runs in CI
builds out your artifacts on every
commit semester and if there is a draft
release on github releases that's
already been created then it will
publish the latest version of the
installers to that draft release and so
then every built-in master will just
change it'll just replace that artifacts
from the draft release until you hit
publish the release and then those
artifacts frozen and then then you
bumped their number so you're kind of
always like this
we're building a lot seven now we're not
just a number in the package version but
we haven't committed to which particular
commit we're going to tag as I've got
seven so it's the opposite way around
and how we do a lot of other projects
where we don't spawn a certain number
until we are about ready to do the time
anyway this is marginally underwhelming
if you care about user experience but
the fact is you can now install the app
wait a second now what used to happen
when you would run the app is Oh a sexy
pop up a warning that says this
application is unsigned and unknown so
you can't install it so basically have
this warning message but with no no way
to run it so this is in UX terms of them
it's somewhere between like some very
minor improvement because it still get a
warning or a huge improvement because
the users can open and run so as to
school like don't run this it's made by
monsters you shouldn't touch it
so now after many many days of talking
to Jesse label and dealing with bizarre
admin rituals we have signed binaries so
that is
and less exciting is the is a hundred
less expect means the Windows story is
still on hold while waiting to get
switch slides and we are going to go and
do some due diligence and check that
protocol lamps isn't organizations and
eventually those numbers and certs no
more go through the same dance with that
at least I've done it now so I know
where it goes other exciting games head
with yoga great we learned lots about
their guts of the IP of the Explorer
code and we will do some more pairing on
those changes next week just dealing
with there's been I kind of saw that
there was lots of API changes coming for
IPL D and some of the dependency is like
tag PP so I kind of ignored all of the
changes for a few months and so that
will tackle a whole bunch done in one go
I don't think I would do that again
because it's and that changed change
offense there's a quite a long process
times just let my listen nothing which
is just do rapid regular releases
Explorer Andy I can't otherwise admin
stuff I mean and interviewing and the
next steps for the southwestern
analytics I just need to do a call to
action on the Status page because we
want to make it opt-in so that we don't
offend anybody if we are to get any
analytics out of The Selfish Analytics
I'm gonna just do a little Bama on the
Status page when you first run and it
says please help us make this better and
enable the analytics the other part is I
have to write some infrastructure
terraform code as a proposal for the
infrastructure team to review so that I
can then hand over the management of the
service and not have to run selfishly
digitalocean droplet forevermore any
questions something in a chair oh I'm
sorry just
all right for my scratchy Oh
where fewer items of clothing next time
that's me any questions no questions
please not home good that's fine
statements this point to next week I'm
gonna be focused on where do I to point
for release I think there's probably too
many things like to do to get it done
all next week but we're gonna get as
close as we can and Act es is not with
us today but he has been ill so not a
huge amount stuff but he's been focused
on the context menu for Windows users so
integrating agonist is not with the
operating system so that you can right
click on a folder and say that's ID FS
and I think this PR is ready to review
so it works which is exciting someone
gets to install Windows and try it or we
all get to install Windows Enterprise
[Music]
this chat window yeah yeah once in my
career
yeah so I'm not even sure if this is
something that's particularly easy to do
in Mac OS but that's where the area of
research is that and deal go he has a
hand
yeah because last week I took like a
morning to to see that how we could
maybe make a West again it's not really
easy basically we have to make an
ultimate escape and implicating the
installer okay I mean if it's that's was
my reading of it as well like if we make
the ultimate script and it works and the
Installer can copy it into the right
location then I think it's doable
question whether we should I don't think
there's just so many information there
realm because I saw a lot of questions
and no responses yeah okay maybe we'll
be the ones to go there and you can be
like oh yeah and then everyone's
context many starts getting like this 1
million of things from every single
application you ever instant
[Music]
look yet we're waiting on the windows to
forget okay that is myself and Henry
Terry did you want to update us I'll
stop sharing my screen okay so a few
things are at least somewhat related to
this group so Alan spent some time with
me yesterday as I just tried to start
from scratch at js5 p.m. yes I think I
was just fine
try what I was trying to do is find
resources about the file API that
already exists because I'm trying to
build a proto school tutorial so we went
through some of the resources that were
there together and in the notes here you
can see a link to the issue where we're
talking about what the protocol tutorial
will look like so I laid out a proposal
that would have actually two tutorials
one of them about the stuff that I think
is it's like not m FS it's technically
the core stuff and you know cat and
those kinds of things and then a second
one that would be about m FS and when I
mentioned that to Michael he had been
envisioning only covering the NFS stuff
and completely skipping the other stuff
so this is a point of perhaps some
debate that needs to happen so I'd be
very open to any feedback on that PR
before I get started building so please
go check that out and well we were on
that main page there's like a file
exchange demo that's built in where you
see the code on the left and then you
see that app that it builds on the right
and when I tried to drag and drop into
there I got a type error which Alan
identified as being because of a change
that was made recently to the API where
you're not supposed to include the word
files anymore when you type stuff but I
I'm like completely lost and github I
don't know where the repo is for that
website so I don't know where to blog
this issue if that would be helpful or
if one a few wants to do it so you can
either pace me a link and I'm happy to
or whatever works for you
and
some not me but one of our chapter
leaders for proto school has proposed a
tutorial that would be about hosting
static websites on ipfs and i remembered
that there is no PR for one of these two
groups that are on this call about
making it easier to do or possible to do
or one of these things in JSI PFS my
impression is that you can do that and
go now and not quite enjoy us and maybe
the next release of JSI PFS will support
it or something along these lines so I
put a few notes after kind of pinging
Ollie and Lydell I put a few notes in
that issue to kind of respond to the guy
who's there but this is one where when I
talked to Michael about it he would like
to prioritize this as one of the most
most urgent tutorials to build after we
get the file one out the door so if you
guys have any thoughts on what that
would look like feel free to throw them
in that issue which is linked there and
then the other thing that might be of
interest to some of you on this group I
don't know how much you speak at
conferences meetups whatever but I
started a this is not actually what I
started sorry let me put the right word
in here I started speaking Channel and
slack and this is one of my okay ours on
me sort of company-wide version of the
community team is to help employees have
a place an ongoing place to improve
their speaking skills so one of the ways
we'll do it is just conversation and
slack if you see a cool article about
slide design or battling an impostor
syndrome or whatever kind of thing that
might be um and then I'm also planning
to set up a semi-monthly call where
we'll have an opportunity to give it
like if you have a presentation coming
up you can book it on the calendar give
your presentation on the call get
feedback from other people who are
hopefully experienced speakers and get
some tips on how to move forward the
equivalent of this call at IBM was
everyone on my developer advocacy team's
favorite call of the week it was just an
awesome place to kind of brainstorm
together and share ideas and in a group
where that was very forgiving and also
had a lot of good feedback so
hope that people will join that so you
can go over to that slack channel
there's a comment there about the call
just click on the little hands up icon
if you want to be included with me get
that it'll be on the public calendar but
as I try to find a time that works I
will consider people who Clips the hand
emoji and my next like my big priority
right now is building that files
tutorial for part of school I like bi
and I need to work on a road map so
that's what's next up for me does
anybody have questions on it and stuff I
just talked about thank you whoever just
put that don't never mind something made
an issue thank you yeah
the speaking Channel sounds great and
yeah Alan's are saying that he created a
bunch issues from your time together
okay perfect and Tioga says he built it
so he can also be useful in fixing it
correct
nice hugo mr. Diaz would you like to
tell us how it's going on yes make me
sure okay so
I revealed the public Westmorland
about loading the IP of the format's did
a bunch of research about it also fix
the problem about the ipfs not
connecting to the bootstrap notes
because of in the browser it was related
to package I built for the window phase
work basically people that still use
like bubble and stuff to transpile to
echo script files and have a hard time
handling stuff that ik subclasses
negative classes like URL so I needed to
change the like using classics time to
extend URL to use the delegation so
bubble and create react and stuff like
that doesn't like blow up with the with
the class extending in class I also had
supports either supported for the since
the for course in some stuff inside the
test so we don't need to like disable
security when we run a text in browsers
basically we needed to create custom
browsers or custom configuration for
browsers to run karma to deserve a web
security and now we can just use the
standard browsers that dr. karma already
have this is related to the CI
prototypes that I'm finishing also the
bugs and others another thing related to
URL that a struct was ready to ISO URL
but it isn't basically somewhere
in the IP fresco probably to p2p
IP offense ipv6 addresses are not kindly
using brackets when they build an URL so
that gives an error now we might pick
it's my URL package I don't even know
how that works before either we only now
are starting to see ipv6 I piece or
something was adding good stuff before I
don't know which one is it
but Velasco isn't trying to figure out
what's happened happening there and
fixing that stuff also related to the
window size for requests while trying
trying to fix em Plex and basically gave
up on making it work computer readable
streams - ready ask Jacob for some help
but meantime I'm trying to fix the pool
streams to string the package that
basically right now returns some really
old and non-standard
interface for a string I'm trying to
make its which one proper readable
stream three basically that's kind of
done basic my basic state tests as but
right now I'm trying to run the current
tests that that package has and it's
weird stuff in there so I'm still
struggling a bit but I'll probably be
able to finish that fast so I already
talked about oh I also finished adding
cough support
for the Kurama set up this is also
related to the CI prototypes and
physically that's it I'm as I said
locked on the ant likes and switch both
requests a lot on the size and now we'll
try to finish tech stuff this week
owls so I will also try to finish the
pull string to string and CI prototypes
questions personally when you were
talking about the invalid ipv6 URLs that
was a bug fixed on multi a data URI like
last week that fixes that and I can see
that's a dependency of J's by professor
I'm assuming you tracked it down already
yeah Allen even mention it that is
already being in some places but we
found some other places that are not
using it so somewhere we need to either
start using it or some find some other
way I think that bugs meets that it's
like I don't really think we are only
now started to see ipv6 something else
change yeah but we only now start to see
the errors so something weird going on
thank you very much and I'll enter
school how's it go okay just before we
head off on why I've been doing on that
point that we're just talking about the
there is a couple of instances where our
CC and WebSockets where it is just
extract like they're trying to dial two
particular addresses and it's extracting
out an ipv6 address and it's not placing
it in square brackets so that's that's
likely the cause and I'm guessing Hugo
that actually your library because that
that's the thing that changed is better
at validating that those URLs and that's
probably why we didn't see it before but
yeah anyway
okay so let me share my Hugo has a
response here's just a quick one
that's the coke past he's going through
the PO the WS and so he's already two
WebSockets and we used to use a library
to kind of build relative URLs to use
like we know that location and build the
WebSocket URL and I also with my packets
I kind of read it that logic so but all
of that code goes through either you
know the URL or the browser URL that now
are basically the same so I guess it's
the old relative package was doing some
stuff that's mask the error and now it's
kind of going straight in and either the
browser or neural just errors out
because it doesn't know ipv6 without
brackets okay and all right can
everybody see my screen yes good okay so
yeah last week got released 0.34 for GSI
BFS we had to pull the DHD out of this
release it was not stable enough so
we'll be in the next release but there's
still a whole bunch of good stuff in
there like we made it fast it's got some
ham support in em FS which is great
because we can put in really really big
directories and have them sharded and we
got some IP NS features and things and
we got the cid handling stuff so you can
use the cid base and this in the command
line and the and in HTTP api and see how
if your c IDs come back as whatever base
you you'd like them to be so that's
awesome we also got your new web UI
as as new as it is and yeah there was a
lot of kind of API changes which we've
already talked about and have come
across problems in the website and stuff
object changed we've got like files
stuff we talked about the file stuff
being some some of these things moving
to different places we added some cool
API methods DHT stuff yeah doesn't
matter so much could who took it out the
release and then look we've got this new
section which thanks everyone who did it
and there are a lot of people look how
many people have commit and have
contributed to this release pretty cool
huh
so this is like JSF EFS but also like
Clippy to be independent modules in the
ipfs ecosystem so not just JSI their
best but it they are all depended on or
used by Jess I guess so yeah
loads of fun fun times fun people good
people doing good work and so yeah what
else cool okay so the IP OD etherium and
i thought he'd get libraries didn't have
their browse bills enabled basically
they were working because it builds them
but they weren't being like they were in
the get ignore the disk directory so
when they don't when they were published
to npm the district is going up there
Eva so that was a fairly easy fix to add
an NPM acknowledge didn't ignore the
disk folder so that's good and I did
that because I saw that Hugo was is
doing oh I saw I I know that you guys
doing a whole bunch of work on making
the bundle size smaller in the browser
which is super awesome and the the pull
request against ipfs at the moment
removes the IP ID formats that are not
the default ones dag Seaboard dog peepee
and sorry so that the bundle size is
super small but then you don't get to
use these things in the browser and I
remember David Diaz saying something
about loading these things don't
as and when they're needed and I thought
well we could keep the bundle size
really small but we could also just load
them from
ipfs so dogfooding getting them from
ipfs nice nice little CD and stuff
because it's that's what ipfs is
essentially I created a repo which which
extracts all of the browser builds or
the IP LD formats and puts them in a
folder and then you can just add that
type EFS so that looks something like
this at the moment for the latest
versions but you can just run the script
again and it will pull down any new ones
and create the folders and then you can
just pin that new that new directory but
it kinda looks like this and so you can
basically just put like index or j/s in
a script tag on your page and it'll it's
like the PI PFS CDN which is cool but
also it means that you can wecan like
the in IBRD this is feature called load
format which which I added that it
allows us to like load formats
dynamically so if I PLD doesn't know
about a format it will call this
function and you can asynchronously like
go get that format and and then provide
it to IPO D and whatever IP I'll D was
doing it can continue to do so
the because these are now on ipfs when
it calls load format it can just go and
grab it from ipfs like my PFS cat and
then the path to this this thing so
that's kind of fun and I have a pull
request open for it
and there's a video talking a bit more
about it and there are some hurdles with
that like if you if you like start your
node and you're offline or have poor
connectivity and then try and get stuff
I'm not sure how you would go and get
something if you couldn't if you didn't
have it locally well I guess if you had
something locally in a format that
wasn't well why would you have it
locally if you hadn't already resolved
it anyway
the point is like unless the
formats are bundled with ipfs then
they're not bundled with ifs so you have
to have network connectivity I'll get
them right so like I there is a pull
request ah yes I professor I haven't put
a link in now put it in the door in the
door but I'm interested to hear your
like opinions on it I know Lytle and
Hugo have already commented and I need
to read them but yeah I sort of thought
it was a fun fun thing to do say yeah
but like it's kind of it's there I don't
know if I made you or not we'll see yeah
like a yeah see anyway so that's done
interesting thing for you guys is if
you're using meteor which I know some of
you have in the past you can or will
soon be able to bundle it in in meteor
in I just saw this today so quickly
fixed it weirdly in package Jason we've
got like in the browser field
we've got like like I think I say speak
like false and IP festivals so that's
that's kind of weird like why would you
depend why would this module depend on
itself which it doesn't so I just
removed them but like weirdly in meteor
that makes meteor not bundle it's like
this module and and so removing them I
don't see any like I can't think of any
reason by why they shouldn't just be
removed so I just removed them and just
running the test now and hopefully and I
tested it with meteor and it works now
whereas before it didn't so easy fix
anyway that's me that's what I did I'm
not blocked on anything at the moment I
started the CID basis 32 migration thing
with starting with JSC ID change the
default if you call to string or to base
encoded string on a CID and it's a
version 1 CID then it will be printed
out as a base 32 string not to basically
58 string and that's gonna break a whole
bunch of things this is this is it this
is the start of the big change the
defaults crusade yeah exactly the thing
is like all of the tests have like
hard-coded base 58 some IDs just slowly
might work my way through like I don't
know how this is gonna operate with bit
swap and stuff so I need to it's yeah
it's gonna get hairy I think it's not I
don't forget a simple case of like flip
the switch requests to send on the
dynamic loading of IP LD resolvers well
give us that's very cool I was wondering
you've mentioned that we could use them
in script tags on a web page I think
maybe is that true because the Gateway
won't give them the mine type the
content type when we set to JavaScript I
don't know I don't know if browsers just
ignore it and I think they're it's a
little bit more pissy about that these
days yeah yeah it's not it's not the 90s
anymore either
squirt anything in there but it does
what it does work when loaded by okay
this ends wrapped in a function it just
occurred to me that this is similar to
the serviceworker saying like if it did
send the right one type then anyone
could load a serviceworker I got it
concert actual application JavaScript it
knows what it is okay response headers I
could just put this in a script tag
that's true great we should also check
about the serviceworker thing yeah
that's all I have to say I think rim
redacted okay cool
thank you very much Alan show so what is
on the agenda where is it and it's at
the top it's okay so this turned out
last night this is fun
what to do about chromium III manifest
this is news just in that particularly
interesting for the in web browsers and
web extension crowd Chrome has made some
proposals about where they're going to
take the web extension its API next and
the work is being done under the banner
of the V version three manifest by
thinking that somewhat distracts from
the core of the changes they're
proposing which is in an interest of
making web extensions have not be able
to impact performance of the browser
requesting and making HTTP requests they
want to switch from allowing extensions
to have programmatic control so
basically have the browser inform web
web extensions about every outgoing HTTP
request and then say is this one is this
a web request that you'd wish to
redirect or to block and that
functionality is used heavily by
architects companion to allow
redirecting to if it sees a valid HTTP
flavored ipfs address it uses this fact
to redirect back to your local your
local IP this HTTP gateway also and
blockers any form of web extension based
content blocker makes Heather use of
this functionality to go and check kind
of standards lock list of things the
proposal from chrome is that they're
seeing a significant performance impact
by of having to have every outbound HTTP
requests go through a list of well
extensions and say hey well extensions
can this can this go it's a blocking API
so each one extension gets a chance to
veto the request so from a perf an goal
it makes it's understandable that this
proposal has come through but they're
they're proposed fix for it is to
basically take away programmatic control
and turn it into a declarative API where
web extensions have to declare in
advance in their manifest so statically
define it a set of rules for which urls
and how the what behavior that
Brow's I should do so you you tell you
give chrome a recipe where you declare
it yes thanks the Clair stuff so you
want to handle every single URL but
there's the other problem there's a hard
limit of about they're proposing to add
a limit of 30,000 rules which I guess is
like we said where it's going to improve
performance but then if they let were
fix tensions define 10 billion rules
each I'm guessing that that would still
be a look up here but the bigger issue
here is like brave has moved to the
chromium API edge is maybe to chromium
like if they get to call the shots on
what the web extension API looks like so
they and then in the background like
Firefox a year ago or two years ago
switched to making their web extension
API more like a crime so that browser
web extension vendors could have a shot
at making portable web extensions and we
moved companion to that so this is kinda
this is pretty bad news it's not easy to
sugarcoat it like we could still I think
we can statically define a rule that
like identifies an IPS path and legree
the written out to your local gateway
but we lose functionality around being
able to toggle it at one time as to
whether you want to go to the public
gateway or a local gateway and maybe
Martin you unpacked a few more issues as
well so like like morning that nodes are
on the issue but basically we do much
more right now done looking at the URL
and looking if there's like ipfs or IP
NS path like path starting with this
segment we expect HTTP headers for
additional like X ipfs path rather as
additional hint that the website might
support Dennis link and then we do DNS
link lookup to confirm that and the web
request API is not blood it's not
blocking by default like making it
blocking is an opt-in so we are blocking
it because we need that but there are
other extensions that don't need to
block they can just a synchronous
observe so I'm not really convinced how
how big of a problem is that's like
realistically for us like we will we
would be able to do some things with
this proposed API but we would lose a
lot of the single seamless experience
right
basically the detection of the NS linked
websites would probably go away ability
to really like redirect things based on
headers or like do header based opt-out
or maybe even avoiding adding course
headers to your local Iranian gateway to
have ipfs companion being able to talk
to it it's like sort of a separate issue
but a related one so what is worth
noting is that it's a draft so this
draft may change and there's already a
big backlash against that cause like the
optics are not very good for Google
given the the most important extension
that will not be possible to exist is
you block and hue metrics so my take on
this is to wait for the dust to settle
people are already posting their use
cases in the thread I probably wait till
the temperature drops a little bit
because it's a very heated discussion
right now and then maybe post our like
how we consume those api's it's like
ongoing issue but we need to follow it
to ensure we like to to make sure we are
planning accordingly because it would be
a shame if this change got rolled out
without any any yeah any feedback from
our end and also like there are multiple
like there are multiple changes that
could potentially maybe not break ipfs
companion but would
require us to basically rewrite a big
chunk of it basically there's like one
proposal to remove the concept of
background page it's the concept is that
there's a background page that is hidden
it's not visible to user but basically
there is a Dom HTML DOM and JavaScript
can run in the background on that
background page and they want to remove
that and replace that by serviceworker
which we started and stopped only when
this like filter list hits much right
yeah just a quick rule but um I think we
explained the existential threat that
the v3 man of the thing changes and we
should talk very quickly about brave as
well these will just unpack a little bit
more detail of the cool so should I
should I like give a quick background on
general plan yeah that'd be great yeah
so like the plan is in the past we like
in 2018 the best we could do was to
redirect to locally running ipfs go ipfs
node so and brave had a plan to ship the
Tor binary with the browser embedded in
the browser so it was like a hammer and
the idea was to yeah basically we could
do the same for ipfs and in 2019 now jpf
is move in implementation of things like
an affairs the HT will launched on IP
and s over DHT things like that so
there's like a feature parity comment on
Kleiss knee when it comes to JSA PFS and
also brave themselves figured out a
framework for exposing some Chrome OS
API so those are more powerful ap is
from Chrome OS that are not available in
regular chrome such as raw sockets API
TCP sockets and TDP and you are able to
start your
I'll TCP server or listen to for TCP
connections things like that so
basically the idea is that if we have
access to that dog's api's from ipfs
companion and we run chase ipfs in ipfs
combine a context then we could have a
feature parity
we've got EFS at least when it comes to
starting HTTP gateway and redirecting to
local HTTP Kotori just like we do for
the NGO activist but the difference is
that there is no binary to worry about
it's much easier to out it it's much
easier to cause like security parameter
for web extension is already defined
it's a separate process and stuff like
that and also we fully control when we
update
JSI PFS instance generally it's much
better experience for shipping and
maintaining for both brave and actress
companion so that's the idea
yep all you do have any questions
related to that plan no new ones from
the last time we spoke but it was more
around this is gonna be a j-type EFS
instance running in the browser context
no chase like if is instance running in
a node context so it's there's there is
if there is a currently a trade-off like
ease of deployment and control from our
side this is the performance that you
could expect from such a thing and also
so you would you just say Mike we need
some solution for HTTP like we'd have to
build out this here's how you do HTTP
gateway in a browser if such yeah so
basically without that we did this plan
won't work if we are not able to expose
HDD cage way
from embedded Jase IP first note another
like sort of a prerequisite for that is
to add defense detection like native
ipfs detection to break itself so brave
will not ship with IP fast companion in
a book for everyone but the first time
user is visiting website we fight give
us resources or there's like ipfs header
in HTTP response or maybe there's a DNS
link or maybe user there's a JavaScript
call to window ipfs to enable eye
professor API then there's like a prompt
to user this website could make use of
ipfs what CIFS would you like to enable
it and then ipfs is started and
automatically J's ipfs note starts
things like that
so for this plan to work we need at
least to expose HTTP gateway in some way
and those low level so consider are the
best the best way or the only way I see
right now to do without like third-party
software ok
it's nearly only our I would it would be
nice for to check the British you
because I think there is there are some
things to unpack on the pros and cons of
using an embedded case I'll give s as
the default so we could to get people
source on that as once this is rolled
out that would make I give this a lot
more visible to a lot more people we
didn't invite Kim pic to say any words
Jim did you have anything you wanted to
share with the group wherever you just
have a nice time just having a nice time
it's very good in which case this has
been anything I'm drowning this would it
be good to have like a cool where we can
just discuss this the brave thing like
outside of
I think this was a little bit rushed
today I would have liked to talk a bit
more about it we can talk a bit more
about it and now I gotta go now
then let's have a call please read the
issue and your thoughts there and we all
showed you a call from Baptists sweet
thanks everybody is ipfs gooey and in
web browsers weekly sync same time same
place next week's brings knit your GUI
and in web browsers ideas and we will
talk on them bye bye